Hi guys.
In the last lap I introduce private subnets to you and we deployed an easy to instance into a private
subnet and then we saw how we could use a bastion host to access it.
But one of the problems I mentioned at the end is your instance in the private subnet doesn't have any
way of accessing the internet so you can't get updates you can't connect to applications on the Internet.
You are basically isolated which for some use cases is fine but for many it isn't.
So you need to be able to connect your instances in private subnets to the Internet and there's two
principal ways that we do this.
And these are the two that are likely to come up on the exam.
So one is called a Nat instance and that stands for network address translation which really is the
process of taking a private IP address and translating it to a public address so that you can speak
on the Internet.
The other is a NAT gateway which is a bit newer than a that instance.
So I'm just gonna explore both of these with you now in a fairy lesson and then we're going to go on
to a couple of labs where we put these into action and you see how they work.
So I'm actually going to start with just going through this table a Nat instance so this is the old
way.
What you actually do with a Nat instance is provision and easy to instance and then configure it so
that it performance the network address translation so you actually launch that easy to instance and
therefore you must manage it within that gateway.
It's actually managed by NWS so all you have to do is create an attach in that Gateway and everything
else is done by Amazon with in that instance.
The only way to scale it is by scaling the instance type.
So in other words using a bigger instance type with more resources and perhaps enhance networking get
additional bandwidth within that gateway.
Alas Stickley scales up to 45 gigabit per second so that's quite a lot of bandwidth.
We're in that instance.
There is no high availability.
You'd have to script it to using auto scaling or something like that using nets in multiple subnets.
So there's no native way to do it.
It's not easy.
It's a bit messy.
We've not gateways you get automatic hate shaped within an availability zone and you can place in that
gateway into multiple places.
In that instance you have to manage security groups within that gate where you don't some of the advantages
of Nat instances are you can also use them as a bastion host.
So maybe that's an advantage.
I would just deploy a separate bastion host so it's not really a big one.
But we've not gateways you can't actually access them through SSA at all.
We we're in that instance you can use an elastic IP or a public IP with that gate where you choose an
elastic IP to associate with the net Gateway one of the other potential advantages of in that instance
is you can implement port forwarding free manual customization Nat gateways don't support the port forwarding
so potentially that could be an issue in most cases it won't be.
So let's just have a look at a couple of diagrams before we head into the labs.
So this is a Nat gateway.
It's a device managed by AWB as you provisioned it into your availability sign know your subnet and
then your easy two instances in private subnets are pointed to the NAT gateway through the round table.
So you remember the round table for a private subnet.
Doesn't have an Internet gateway but in this case it has a net Gateway I.D. So your route to the outside
world that IP address range that says anything that isn't within this range.
The site block range for the VPC will be rounded by the NAT gateway so it goes out to the outside world
with a s instance.
It's just an easy to instance that you manage but essentially it's the same thing.
So from the Roundtable's perspective you can figure out and you put in your net instance I.D. instead
of a net gateway.
So that's the ferry guys.
Let's get stuck into some labs and create these configurations.